>> Marcy Sutton: So let's move on to our
next major topic, which is Semantic HTML.
In JavaScript applications,
I think because it's so
easy to write markup in your JavaScript,
sometimes people just aren't thinking
about, how to use semantic HTML.
I've seen it on websites,
I've seen it in applications,
it's just pretty common unfortunately.
So we're gonna talk about semantics
because of the the power that they
can bring to your all of your sites.
And this is an important enough
accessibility basic that I wanted to bring
it up because a lot of JavaScript
applications suffer from this.
So some things that we should be
using our headings and landmarks.
So headings like the H1
through H6 elements,
we had that dynamic heading in
our skip link component earlier.
Landmarks are things like HTML main,
nav, header.
I've used them in the application
that we're working with today, so
they're baked in.
Another area of semantics is to
start with native UI controls, so
if there is a select that you could use.
The reason I showed you a drop down was
because those links inside of it are for
navigation, and
a select element is more of a form control
that's not really meant for navigation.
But if you are doing something for
forms like if there is a native one,
like a native text input, start there
because you get a lot for free.
And you can build semantics
in your templates.
We saw kind of poking around in this
Gatsby site that I had broken up my
navigation from the header.
And so you can kind of bake those
semantics into each component snippet or
each template.
And then every consumer of
that template will benefit.
That's something that I've worked into
some of the Gatsby starter projects so
that everyone's starting with those
will get some of that benefit.
And then we want to verify that
the semantics that we've had is you're
actually working in assistive technology,
because that's where a lot
of the benefits come in.
It's good for SEO,
it's good for reader modes.
It's really good for
assistive technology output.
And I have a link here from WebAIM that
stands for web accessibility in mind.
All of their guides are fantastic, but the
one on semantic structure, I like a lot.
So bit more about why this is important
if you can navigate through a web
page by all the headings as a blind user,
that saves you a ton of time.
I went back through my
notes from user testing.
And some of the things that they had
mentioned was like, yeah, I like that this
has headings because I can just hit the H
key and then VDA and navigate by headings.
It also communicates to users of
assistive technology what's on the page.
It could help for
things like conversational UI's.
Ways to mark up pages so
that it's not what we call div soup.
And things like search engines too.
So some semantics in the wild, this is
a screenshot from the Event Apart website.
They've used a section element here,
they've got ordered and unordered lists.
There's a main element,
and so that's pretty easy.
Like if you could swap out a div for
more semantic element that would be great.
As a resource I really like
the Mozilla Developer Network.
If I'm going to read about what,
what do I get from using this element,
that's a good resource to look at it.
And you can combine those semantics
with more modern layout tricks,
like here they have
a section with display grid.
And so I find that that combination of
writing accessible modern sites is just
such a joy.
So some tools for testing semantics
like to verify that output,
because sometimes you can use a tool
before even firing up a screen reader.
And it can get you pretty close
to verifying what's going on.
Accessibility Insights has
a headings tool, so you can go and
look at all the headings on the page.
That's the one that has
the tab order tool as well.
Another tool I really like for this is
the Firefox Web Developer Extension.
It's an older extension that they've
kept up to date, it's pretty great.
So some other tools that you could
use to test this would be NVDA's,
they an elements list
that you can pull up.
And the cheat sheet has the keyboard
commands for how to do that.
Also, Voiceover has a thing called
the rotor, which is sort of the analagous
thing in Voiceover that you can navigate
by headings, or navigate by form controls,
or images, or whatever collection
of things you wanna navigate by.
And so looking at semantics,
that's an interesting way to do it
because if you pull up all the landmarks,
you can especially in NVDA's
elements list or Voiceover's rotor.
You can see like, okay, there's five nav
elements, and none of them are labeled.
How do I know which nav is what?
So maybe an aria label on
that element would help
differentiate what these sections are.
And then browsers reader modes,
you can go and check like.
Okay, did I actually mark
this up with a list so
that it has a,
list styling to it by default.
So those are some tools for that.
For the demo for semantics.
I am going over the application.
I have this layout example that shows
some of the different markup that I could
have used like divs all the way down.
Styling means that you could style
things however you want, but
it's much better to use
these semantic elements
just because of the accessibility
information that they provide.
So like a header when we looked at
New York Times earlier and it said banner
That's a header with a role of banner
which is supposed to be the top header.
You can have this nav role of nav, so
the elements like this header, main,
nav, they get those roles by default.
I've added them on here just to show
like what their aria equivalents are.
But you get those semantics by
default which is really cool.